There are two distinct components to stream processing applications.
The streaming data store,
which we've animated down here on the left,
with events going into the streaming data store,
and the streaming processing calculation,
and that's what we have here on the right.
Just to reiterate, think of a data store as
a generic place where we store data such as a database or message queue.
The streaming data store is responsible for holding
all of the immutable event data in the system.
Streaming data stores provide guarantees that data is stored,
ordered according to the time it was produced,
as well as produced to consumers in that same order.
So just to reiterate,
if I have an event produced at time zero,
time one, and time two,
when that data leaves the data store,
it will come out in the same order,
so a consumer of this data we'll see T_O first,
T_1 second, and T_2 third.
Additionally, these data stores also guarantee that the events
that they store are immutable and unchangeable.
So the data store itself is actually
the object in the system that makes the decision that once this event has been stored,
it can no longer be changed.
These conceptual guarantees provides stream processing applications with
powerful assumptions that they can use in processing the data at a later time.
If we can assume that data can't change and always arrives in a particular order,
that alleviates a significant amount of
logical overhead from our stream processing applications.
The most common streaming data store in use today are Apache Kafka, and Apache Cassandra.
So you have the Kafka logo here on the left,
and the Cassandra logo here on the right.
Kafka has some similarities to message queues such as RabbitMQ or ActiveMQ.
If you're not familiar with those technologies, it's okay.
We'll add some links to the texts for you to take a look at them out offline.
We'll talk more about how Kafka works,
and how it differs from these other message queues in a later lesson.
Apache Cassandra behave similarly to traditional SQL stores,
but also supports streaming data.
The actual stream processing application is
the second component in a stream processing solution.
These applications sit downstream of the data store.
So here we have events coming out of a data store into the streaming calculation.
They ingest real-time event data from one or more data streams.
These applications will aggregate, join,
and find differences between incoming data from these data streams,
and then they typically produce output events that represent the calculation result.
There are many types of stream processing application frameworks available today.
In this course specifically,
we are going to cover confluent case SQL,
and the Faust Python streaming library.
Other excellent options include Apache Spark structured streaming,
Apache Kafka streams, Apache Flink, and Apache Samza.
Each of these streaming platforms offer unique and interesting features,
but the core concepts that we're going to learn in this course
are shared amongst all the solutions we're going to review.